rfc: add rfc docs about adding pulsar to tidb-binlog (#136)
pingcap/community: rfc/2019-12-10-add-pulsar-to-binlog.md

# Proposal: Add Apache Pulsar to tidb-binlog

- Author(s): Xiaolong Ran
- Last updated:  Dec 05, 2019
- Discussion at: https://github.com/pingcap/community/issues/117

## Abstract

The proposal aims at:

> 1. Use **key_shared** subscription type of [Apache Pulsar](https://github.com/apache/pulsar) to enhance **binlog** data processing capabilities;

Author: Good idea, will fix it

## Background

> During the Change Data Capture(CDC), we need to ensure the order of the messages, or, we need to ensure that DDL arrives before DML. Currently, we use Kafka to process the order of messages, but as you know, Kafka can only guarantee the order of messages within a single partition. If we need to expand the downstream data processing capabilities, sometimes we want more partitions to provide more processing power, but how do we ensure the order of messages at this time? This is a trickier question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the Change Data Capture(CDC), we need to ensure the order of the messages. And we use Kafka to process the order of messages, but as you know, Kafka can only guarantee the order of messages within a single partition. If we need to expand the downstream data processing capabilities, sometimes we want more partitions to provide more processing power, but how do we ensure the order of messages at this time? This is a trickier question.
```

> During the Change Data Capture(CDC), we need to ensure the order of the messages, or, we need to ensure that DDL arrives before DML. Currently, we use Kafka to process the order of messages, but as you know, Kafka can only guarantee the order of messages within a single partition. If we need to expand the downstream data processing capabilities, sometimes we want more partitions to provide more processing power, but how do we ensure the order of messages at this time? This is a trickier question.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the Change Data Capture(CDC), we need to ensure the order of the messages, which we use Kafka to process. However, Kafka can only guarantee the order of messages within a single partition. If we need to expand data processing capabilities for downstream, sometimes more partitions are needed. How do we ensure the order of messages in this scenario is a tricky question to tackle.

## Proposal

We will make these changes:

1. Replace **kafak-client-go** with [pulsar-client-go](https://github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go).

> 2. Provide a plugin to support more message queues, including: Apache Pulsar

Reviewer: a plugin?  What does it mean? Is there a more detailed explanation?

Author: We can make an abstraction of the existing interface implementation, aka, expose an interface, Kafka and Pulsar can implement this interface. 

In this way, all Message Queues that implement this interface can be integrated into tidb-binlog, right?

Author: The rfc's most direct purpose is to replace Kafka with Pulsar. 

In here, I was wondering if we have a more general way to take into account the compatibility of the version and make less intrusion into the original code.

Author: The rfc's most direct purpose is to replace Kafka with Pulsar. 

In here, I was wondering if we have a more general way to take into account the compatibility of the version and make less intrusion into the original code.

Reviewer: right, same with [my comment above](https://github.com/pingcap/community/pull/136#discussion_r358647539) , just do it

> ## Rationale

Reviewer: There are no `Portal` and `Stargate` anymore, I think you can remove this

Author: Sure, will remove them.

> Produce the data in source to the topic of Apache Pulsar, sink uses the subscription type of key_shared to consume the data in Topic.

Reviewer 2: Sorry I don't quite get these two sentences.

Stargate(tidb-binlog sink) consumes the messages from the Pulsar topics through the key_shared subscription mode and publishes the messages to TiDB.

> ## Compatibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Compatibility
```

> There is no compatibility issues. Apache Pulsar is compatible with Apache Kafka protocol

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are no compatibility issues. Apache Pulsar is compatible with the Apache Kafka protocol.
```

## Implementation

> 1. [@xiaolong](https://github.com/wolfstudy) can support pulsar-client-go, make sure you can meet the required interface in tidb-binlog.

Reviewer 2: This is supposed to talk about the implementation steps or plans. So i don't quite get it here

Author: yes, I know. But unfortunately, I don't know the implementation details of tidb-binlog here. Maybe it needs to support @pingcap / ecosystem-tools team.

Author: @GregoryIan PTAL in here.

Reviewer: We have docked this project before 🤔  , but according to the interface of the sarama client, it must meet requirements. But I suggest another better way, define a unified interface for all MQ in golang way, can you help with it @wolfstudy ?

> 2. **Tools-Eng** can help to achieve the replacement process

Reviewer 3: we can use `@pingcap/ecosystem-tools` to replace this part

Author: thanks @zz-jason , will fix it.

# Proposal: Add Apache Pulsar to tidb-binlog

- Author(s): Xiaolong Ran
- Last updated:  Dec 05, 2019
- Discussion at: https://github.com/pingcap/community/issues/117

## Abstract

The proposal aims at:

> Use **key_shared** subscription type of [Apache Pulsar](https://github.com/apache/pulsar) to enhance **binlog** data processing capabilities;

Reviewer 2: The proposal aims at using the **key_shared** subscription type of [Apache Pulsar](https://github.com/apache/pulsar) to enhance **binlog** data processing capabilities.

## Background

During the Change Data Capture(CDC), we need to ensure the order of the messages, which we use Kafka to process. However Apache Kafka can only guarantee the order of messages within a single partition. If we need to expand data processing capabilities for downstream, sometimes more partitions are needed. How do we ensure the order of messages in this scenario is a tricky question to tackle.

## Proposal

We will make these changes:

1. Replace **kafak-client-go** with [pulsar-client-go](https://github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go).
2. Provide a plugin to support more message queues, including: Apache Pulsar

## Rationale

`tidb-binlog` source collects messages from other databases and publishes the messages to Pulsar topics.
`tidb-binlog` sink consumes the messages from the Pulsar topics through the key_shared subscription mode and publishes the messages to TiDB.

## Compatibility

There are no compatibility issues. Apache Pulsar is compatible with Apache Kafka protocol

## Implementation

> 1. [@xiaolong](https://github.com/wolfstudy) can support pulsar-client-go, make sure you can meet the required interface in tidb-binlog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Implement `pulsar-client-go`, and make sure it meets the required interface in tidb-binlog.
```
If we don't talk about more detailed implementations, the above sentence should be fine.
